So we are missing one more thing and
that's because we have declared
the workout store in the handler and
our constructor is expecting
this workout store but
we haven't actually called the workout
handler with the new work out store.
So if we go back to our app.go you can
see here our lovely compile is already
yelling at us, which is great.
And here we're gonna do
declare our workout store.
It's going to be
store.NewPostgresWorkoutStore, and
it expects one argument, which is our
database, we can pass in our PGDB.
And then to finalize the loop,
we can go into the workout handler and
pass in that workout store.
So with all that kinda hooked up, I think
it's a good time to try out if it works.
So what we can do is if you
go to a different terminal,
go ahead and do run main.go.
>> Melkey: Let's see,
I almost forgot to turn my database.
So if you go, docker, make sure
the database's running, docker compose up.
Okay, so yeah,
make sure you have your database running.
That was an example of our application
panicking because our database connection
wasn't working.
Now if we do go run main.go,
if this doesn't work,
I'll be very sad, but it does.
All right, so we have our database
connected, we're back and running.
If you open up a business at
fourth terminal, all right?
This is where we're gonna curl a request.
Now, as at the beginning you can go ahead
and use any sort of API cutlery runner,
post man, post woman, Bruno,
these are all viable options, I use curl.
Now, curl is great,
however typing all along takes quite
a bit of time, it looks messy.
I have this file called post_notes.txt.
Now, typically, I don't like doing this,
I don't like how people just,
here's some code, bring it in.
I'm making the exception here cuz they're
just pro requests with JSON bodies.
Now, I just wanna quickly
explain how these are set out.
There's this little number here
at the beginning, 1.5, and
then the actual JSON request here, okay?
And you can see the following is 1.6,
and if you keep scrolling down,
there's 3.1, 3.2.
These are related to the current
submodule that we are working on.
So right now we are on submodule 1.5.
So when you go back, what we're doing
here, and I'll add this to the commit
message, 1.5 matches the 1.5 co
request that we're creating here.
We have our Go server running,
we have our Davis connection.
And then in the fourth terminal, go ahead
and connect via PSQL, so I use PSQL.
We can do use Postgres,
the host is local host, port 5432.
Remember, if you are doing
this on a different from port,
not 5432,
make sure that is declared here, okay?
And here now I can actually
access the database,
I can do slash DT to see all of the
schemas we have through Goose migration.
You can check, select all from workouts,
this should be empty as it is, but
we can see the schema definition here.
>> Melkey: So now with all that setup,
let's go ahead and copy the very first
curl command from the postnotes.txt
right here, so that should be under 1.5.
And if we go into,
I guess this would be a fifth terminal and
we paste it, which should see
the response in JSON, okay?
So now we have essentially created
a workout with the body of title,
description duration minutes,
calories burned, and
entries, the cool part here is
entries is a list of workout entries,
each with the individual exercise name,
such as squats and bench press.
And you can add on to this,
there's no limit.
This could be empty if you want, well, no,
it has to have at least one workout entry,
but this could be as
large as we want it to.
And the expected response is
responding work to create
a workout from our handler up here, okay?
And if we kind of go back to PSQL,
and I just ran the command,
select all from workouts before
running this command, this was empty,
if I run this now, I now have
an actual entry into my database.
You can see here morning strength
training, description, full body strength
training session, duration 60 minutes,
I burned 500 calories.
And the created ad and
the updated ad is the time at which
this was inserted into our database.
And we can even take this
one step further, right?
Because we have workout entries,
if we do select all
from workout_entries,
we can see here we do in fact
see the squat and
the bench entries for that workout.
You can see in the second column here that
the worker ID is one for both of these
worker entries, which matches
the workout ID from the previous table.
Does anyone have any questions,
anyone kind of seeing any errors,
is it working for everyone?
>> Speaker 2: Michael in chat
says he's getting an error,
column exercise name of relation
workout entries does not exist.
>> Melkey: That error is in the SQL
under migrations work on entries,
they don't have the exercise
name column here.
So make sure you have
double-checked the repo I pushed,
make sure your SQL tables are correct.
If you ran your migration with
an incorrect workout schema or
you missed a field, what I recommend at
this point is just new to database and
rerun it, or you can skip ahead and
figure out how to do the migration call.